All right.
So now that we have introduced our first user story, let's start building out our top level navigation
menu.
The menu feels like an isolated chunk of responsibility.
It's a distinct part of the user interface.
So I propose that we place its contents inside a new view component.
Let's create that component right now.
Inside my project directory, we have our source folder where all of our code lives.
And then inside there we have our components directory.
And right in here, I'm going to create a new main NAV, that view component.
What I'm using here is something called pass cow case, which means I'm capitalizing the first letter
of each word.
So in this case, the M in main and the end enough.
So how do you name your files in view is up to you or up to your team?
The most important aspect, though, is consistency.
It doesn't really matter how you name them or with what casing.
As long as you maintain the same consistency for the various components in your code base.
So I'm going to stick with Pascal case as we create multiple components throughout the course.
All right.
So here we have main NAV and now we can start writing some code inside of it.
Okay, so every Vue component needs a template tag.
And of course, the contents of that template tag is the HTML that that component will render when we
use it.
So right up here, I'm going to write a template, HTML tag, all right.
And then I'm going to add a line break here and we're immediately going to get a small, easy lint violation.
If I hover my mouse over template, we can see it says the template requires child element.
Pretty obvious.
It's telling us, hey, you need to actually give me some HTML that's going to represent what a main
NAV means in the context of this view app.
So for now, I'll just add an HTML five header element and inside there I'll add the words main nav
just so that we can confirm there's some text on the screen when we render this component.
Just in case you're unfamiliar, html five's header element is a new element.
It's basically the exact same as it did technically, but it's a little bit more semantically accurate.
The header component should be used for introductory content to the page, including things like navigational
aids, like menus.
So it represents a better element to use than just a div, especially for things like SEO and accessibility.
All right.
So here we have our header.
Next up, what I want to do is add a couple tailwind CS6 classes to it.
Now, as far as the styles that we're going to add, I just want to give you a little bit into how my
thought process here worked.
All that I really did was go to the Google Careers website, open up my inspector in Chrome and observe
the CSR styles that that website used.
Then I took those styles, went to the Tailwind documentation and found the corresponding CSS classes.
Right?
So our final app is going to look pretty similar like 95% of like to the actual real life Google Careers
app.
Of course, it's not going to be pixel perfect, but close enough.
So I'm no Sisi wizard, I'm no design genius.
All I really did was copy the existing styles entertainment, right?
So that's where I'm going to be getting these classes from.
And of course, as I introduce them, I'm going to talk you through what they're actually doing.
All right.
So right here, let's add two classes to our header.
The first is going to be a tailwind class called W full.
That stands for with full.
Of course, as you can see here, it's simply going to make the header container take up 100% of its
parent container in terms of width.
So full width in this case across the screen.
The next thing I want to add is a class called Text Small.
That's going to be text dash m.
We can see on the right here, it adds a font size of 0.8 75 REM, which is equivalent to 14 pixels.
So we're just going to have a really small text here.
Eventually, this is where I want to put my company name.
For now, we'll stick with Main NAV.
Okay.
So this is everything.
We need to have a functional view component, but I want to add some additional metadata, some additional
information for this component that will help it and help us identify it in the browser.
So as we know below our template tag, we can also add script tags.
All right, so I'm going to add a script tag right here and inside here.
We can write any valid JavaScript that we would like.
What you're typically going to see here is you're going to see an export default state statement, almost
like you're exporting kind of a standard output out of a regular JavaScript file, except in this case,
it's going to be inside the script tag and then you're going to export default a JavaScript object.
And the way to think about this is this JavaScript object is a configuration object for this view component.
All right.
So just for Main NAV, this object is going to allow us to customize how this component works.
I set up a bunch of settings, provided data, etc. We're going to talk more about the properties that
we can add to this object as we progress through the course.
But the central idea here is just about every Vue component is going to export default this JavaScript
object, and each object will configure how that component works.
So one property that we can add here is name, and hopefully this name is pretty self-explanatory.
It allows us to simply give a formal name to the component because the file name is not enough for Vue.
There's nowhere where we've actually said, Hey, view, this component should be called Main NAV.
So right here I'll provide a string called Main.
Now and this is going to appear in our view, dev tools, which will be able to see in just a moment.
All right.
So you'll notice a couple more squiggles appear here that is simply, again, prettier, complaining
about the fact that it doesn't like how things look.
But luckily in our project we can just save our file and we can see prettier apply all of those additional
things like extra commas and semicolons and fix up.
There's one more issue right here.
And if I hover my mouse, you can see s lint wants an extra line break at the end, so I'm just going
to add it and save the file and that completes our main nav component.
Okay.
So at this point, let's head to our browser and see if this component is successfully rendering on
the page.
So I'm going to flip over to Google Chrome and we do not see our new main NAV component.
So what is going on here?
We'll find out in the very next lesson.